In this concept, we will talk and learn about special arrays,
bytes, and string type.
Now, bytes type and string type are both special arrays of type byte data.
There are many similarities between the two and also many differences.
Since they are special arrays which means they can
also be static or dynamic just like regular arrays.
They can also be created in memory or in storage just like normal arrays.
Now, how do we initialize and create bytes type?
Bytes type array can be created in two ways;
either with the keyword byte and the square bracket notation or with the keyword bytes.
If we look in the static section on the screen,
we are creating the data bytes array using two notations,
either with a byte word and then the square brackets notation with the number inside
the bracket or with the bytes would followed by a number between one to 32.
Now, let's look at the dynamic bytes section array, So,
dynamic bytes array can be created with the word byte,
empty square brackets or bytes notation.
Of course since they're dynamic,
we won't need to give a size.
Now, there are some restrictions on static,
which means fixed byte arrays.
Fixed-size byte arrays are read-only,
so you cannot access them using index or store a value since they are read only.
You cannot modify the length property EPC in the example data is a 24 bytes array,
bigger is a 32 bytes array.
So, we cannot store bigger into data.
But smaller is a 16 bytes array,
so we can store smaller,
that is a 16 bytes into data that is 24 bytes array.
A smaller size byte array can be assigned to
a bigger size byte array but the other way around is not allowed. Moving on.
Let's talk about string type now.
String first of all is not a basic type,
it is not a value type either,
it is an array of bytes,
it is dynamically sized.
Now, there are many similarities and
also many differences between bytes type and string type.
Let's first of all talk about conversion between string type and bytes type.
In the function convert that you see on the screen,
we are converting a dynamic bytes array to
a string just by enclosing it with the word string,
this is how you convert between one to the other.
Inside the function again,
the next conversion is from a string type to
a bytes type just by enclosing it with the bytes keyword,
just the way we did for strings.
Now, let's look at some differences between string and bytes type.
In string type fixed length is not supported but it is supported in bytes type,
just like we saw before by using one to 32 number after the bytes keyword.
Index access is not allowed in string but it is okay for bytes type.
In fact, this is a very important point since we
cannot access strings using their index you will see in
many codes where we tried to convert a string to byte and then access it using an index,
we will see an example of this soon.
We cannot push on strings but on storage bytes type, we can push.
But remember, we cannot push on memory bytes type,
we'll also see an example of this soon.
Now, let's look at some examples on the screen in front of you.
We have a variable string storage that is an initial value of Udacity.
Then we have a function called convert that takes
in a string argument and returns the length of the string.
We will look at functions more in latter concepts.
Since we cannot find the length of the strings or strings especially in this case,
we will convert it into bytes variable temp and then
find the length of the variable temp and return this value.
The next function called get element at,
we are getting an argument index and then we're returning a byte value at this index.
Since we cannot access strings using an index,
we are converting the variable string storage
into bytes first and then we're accessing the index.
Since this is just a byte,
we're storing it in a byte and then returning it.
Now, these are all very usable benefits of being able
to compare and convert between strings and bytes.
Let me give you some more details on strings.
First of all, there's not much out-of-the-box support for strings in solidity.
There is an external library called StringUtil,
that I would really encourage you to look at that can be
imported that provides some functions that we can use on strings.
Also, complex string operations should
definitely be avoided because they are very costly on the EVM.
Many similar operations can be carried out using bytes type.
Another better option would be to carry
these operations in a front-end application rather than on the EVM.
Let us summarize string and bytes.
Bytes are in an array of bytes type.
Fixed bytes type can be created by saying bytes one,
byte two and so on.
Dynamic bytes can just be created by using the word bytes.
String type is similar to bytes type.
Fixed length strings are not supported.
We cannot push on strings very important,
we cannot push on strings.
Indexed access on strings is not supported,
a common practice is to convert it into bytes type and to have index access.
Now, let's look at some sample contracts so that we can understand this concept further.
So now on our screen,
we have a sample contract called Stringbytes, contract Stringbytes.
Now, we're declaring two ways I'm going to show you like I just mentioned,
we can have restarted declare initialize two ways,
so the first one is a static byte array,
both declarations will create an array with three byte elements,
one with the keyword bite,
square bracket notation, and the other with a keyword bytes3.
In the second one, we have dynamic bytes array,
byte followed by this and then bytes and then bytes array.
Then we have a string variable that restoring and storage just using this.
Now, inside the function conversion test, we're returning a string.
So, what we're doing we're creating a string two in memory,
storing value Udacity, and now
we're converting it into string and then returning the string.
So, I'm showing exactly what I showed in one of my slides you can convert a bytes type
into a string type by converting it
or this way and then I'm returning the converted value.
Now, this is a very important function I definitely want you to focus at.
Now, this is a way that you definitely would need
in many pieces of code where you're trying to access an index,
which we cannot do in strings.
So, what I'm doing is I'm converting my string to
bytes and then I'm accessing it using the index.
So, in this function I'm actually getting a request
saying someone wants to look at the index at this specific value.
So, I'm using that index and I'm retrieving it and I'm returning that element.
Now, since it's just a byte information,
so I'm turning a byte right there.
The next function called testing,
we have a fixed byte array that we're declaring this way.
Now, it is, first of all remember this is a uint8,
so it needs to be explicitly converted to byte type.
Assignment is also not allowed as bytes3array is a static array.
So, bytes3array that we declared here was a static array,
so that means if I uncomment this,
this kind of assignment is not allowed in solidity,
that we just talked about in this lecture.
Now, we are declaring a bytes memory array,
dynamic memory array, So,
dynamic just because there is no word here,
no number here, so that's a dynamic array in memory called memory bytes.
We're allocating space for 20 different locations for this,
now we're accessing it and storing this value.
So, this works fine but this did not work fine.
So, this you can do that from memory arrays
but you cannot do that for dynamic arrays like this.
Push is definitely not allowed that's in for a very important piece of information.
Push is going to give a compiler error as Push is allowed for storage only.
You cannot push on memory bytes arrays like this,
I'm going to uncomment this and it gives me an error,
so I cannot push.
The next example, a very simple example,
I'm just having a String memory
and I'm storing a value in it and all I'm doing is returning,
so you can return strings from functions this way.
Again, like just like arrays,
I would definitely encourage you to read this, learn these concepts,
watch the video maybe one more time,
and use this code,
we're going to give you all these code in your GitHub pages.
So, copy this code, bring it to remix editor, change values,
play around and I guess that's the only way that you're going to
definitely get comfortable with arrays and bytes and strings in solidity.